1 -  [ASSOCIATESHARED] IAM Identity Policies 

Identity Policies are attached to AWS identities and either ALLOW or DENY access to AWS resources.

In this lesson I step through the main components of an IAM policy .. and discuss in some detail about the priority order or ALLOW and DENY.

2 -  [ASSOCIATESHARED] IAM Users and ARNs 

IAM Users are one of the identity types available inside AWS.

They are type you pick when you can identity a single individual or 'thing' which will use that identity - a person, an application or a service account.

In this lesson I detail the architecture of an IAM user ... how it authenticates, and talk about ARNs which are how resources in AWS are identified.

lesson we create an IAM user, and experiment with assigning permissions on two S3 buckets via inline policies and managed policies.

The DEMO lesson will require two browsers

the 1st will login to the IAMADMIN user of the general account

the 2nd will login to an IAM user called 'sally' for testing.

This lesson guest stars Thor and Merlin - two animal friends... enjoy :)



3 -  [ASSOCIATESHARED] IAM Groups  

IAM Groups are a feature of IAM which you need to know about for the exam.

They are an admin or container feature.

You can add IAM users to groups, and add permissions to Groups

Groups are NOT real identities ... can't be used from resource policies and have no credentials to login with.

we investigate how groups can be used to hold permissions for group members.

Permissions which were assigned to the IAM user 'Sally' are migrated to a new development group we create in the demo.

4 -  [ASSOCIATESHARED] IAM Roles - The Tech 

IAM Roles are one of the more difficult AWS identity types of fully understand.

In this lesson I step through the basic technical and architecture points of AWS IAM Roles.

5 - When to use IAM Roles 

In this lesson I try to step through the type of situations where IAM roles might be used.

By giving examples - I hope to make you more comfortable when to select and when NOT to select roles.

It's an important set of skills to have for the exam and real-world AWS usage. 

6 - Service-linked Roles & PassRole 

A service-linked role is a unique type of IAM role that is linked directly to an AWS service. Service-linked roles are predefined by the service and include all the permissions that the service requires to call other AWS services on your behalf. The linked service also defines how you create, modify, and delete a service-linked role. A service might automatically create or delete the role. It might allow you to create, modify, or delete the role as part of a wizard or process in the service. Or it might require that you use IAM to create or delete the role.

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/using-service-linked-roles.html

7 -  [ASSOCIATESHARED] AWS Organizations 

In this lesson I explain AWS Organizations - It's architecture and some of the benefits for businesses managing larger numbers of AWS Accounts.

The GENERAL account will become the MASTER account for the organisation

We will invite the PRODUCTION account as a MEMBER account and create the DEVELOPMENT account as a MEMBER account.

Finally - we will create an OrganizationAccountAccessRole in the production account, and use this role to switch between accounts.

8 -  [ASSOCIATESHARED] Service Control Policies (SCPs)  

In this lesson I introduce service control policies - a feature of AWS Organizations which allow restrictions to be placed on MEMBER accounts in the form of boundaries.

SCPs can be applied to the organization, to OU's or to individual accounts.

Member accounts can be effected, the MANAGEMENT account cannot.

SCPs DON'T GIVE permission - they just control what an account CAN and CANNOT grant via identity policies.

 we update the structure within the organization - and apply an SCP to the PRODUCTION account to test their capabilities.

9 - CloudWatch Logs 

CloudWatch Logs is a service which can accept logging data, store it and monitor it.

It is often the default place where AWS Services can output their logging too.

CloudWatch Logs is a public service and can also be utilised in an on-premises environment and even from other public cloud platforms.

This lesson introduces the main concepts of CloudWatch Logs and its architecture.


10 -  [ASSOCIATESHARED] CloudTrail  

CloudTrail Is a product which logs API calls and account events.

It's very often used to diagnose security or performance issues, or to provide quality account level traceability.

It is enabled by default in AWS accounts and logs free information with a 90 day retention.

It can be configured to store data indefinitely in S3 or CloudWatch Logs.

In this lesson I detail the theory and architecture of the product.

In this [DEMO] lesson we will implement a Organizational CloudTrail for the Animals4life organisation.

This CloudTrail will be configured for all regions and set to log global services events.

We will set the trail to log to an S3 bucket and then enhance it to inject data into CloudWatch Logs.


CloudTrail Pricing : https://aws.amazon.com/cloudtrail/pricing/

CloudWatch Logs Pricing : https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/

Feel free to disable the trail after completion if you are concerned about small S3 costs ... (there is a $0.01 per 2000 requests and cloudtrail can be pretty noisy)

11 - AWS Control Tower offers a straightforward way to set up and govern an AWS multi-account environment, following prescriptive best practices. AWS Control Tower orchestrates the capabilities of several other AWS services, including AWS Organizations, AWS Service Catalog, and AWS IAM Identity Center (successor to AWS Single Sign-On), to build a landing zone in less than an hour. Resources are set up and managed on your behalf.

AWS Control Tower orchestration extends the capabilities of AWS Organizations. To help keep your organizations and accounts from drift, which is divergence from best practices, AWS Control Tower applies preventive and detective controls (guardrails). For example, you can use guardrails to help ensure that security logs and necessary cross-account access permissions are created, and not altered.


