i just start taking note from SCP course not from the beginning of this section 
-deny allow denay 
allowed = identity policies in account logical(AND) SCP 
in aws organization  you can setup under the roor user accounts e.g develmoment-account and also organizations e.g PRODOrg
you can move account under other organization instead of keeping it under the root 
- cloud watch logs
-metrics cloud watch
public service 
cloud watch integration 
metric filter
alarms
regional service 
logging source (any)
Question : how they unify the logs
log event
log streams 
log groups 
who use cloud watch logs

cloud trail 
cloud tail events activities
90 days
0 cost for 90 days
create a trail or more ( i dont know what is the deffrent between trail - log ... )
- management event - data events insight events 
regional service - all regions - single region 
organization trail 
relation between trail and S3 
management events only default 
IAM,STS,CloudFront => Global Service Event 
not real time -> there is delay

CloudTrail Is a product which logs API calls and account events.

It's very often used to diagnose security or performance issues, or to provide quality account level traceability.

It is enabled by default in AWS accounts and logs free information with a 90 day retention.

It can be configured to store data indefinitely in S3 or CloudWatch Logs.

In this lesson I detail the theory and architectur of the product.


AWS Controle Tower
orchestration 
landing zone 
guard rails
account factory
dashboard

what is OU 

well architected multi account envirement - home region 
build with aws organization , aws config cloud formation
security OU - log Archive audit  acoutn cloud trails , config&logs
sandbox OU test/less rigidsecurity
create OU and account 
iam edentity center aws sso mulitple account , id federation 
monitoring and notification , cloudwatch SNS 
end user account provisioning via service catalogue

gurard rails
mulit account governance 
mandatory , strongly recommended elective 
preventive - stop you doing things (aws org scp )
enforced or not enabled 
allow or denay regions or disallow bucket policy changes 
detective compliance checks 
clear,violation or not enabled
detect  cloud trail enabled or ec2 public ipv4

account facotry
cloud admins or end users with permistions
application of guard rails auto added  
account admin given to a named user (iam identity center ) 
account network standard configs
account can be closed & reproposed 
can be fully integrated wiht busness SDLC

Is there a limit to the number of IAM users in an AWS Account? if so, how many?
Which are features of IAM groups
Within AWS policies, what is always a priority?
What two policies are assigned to an IAM Role
Which of the following are true for IAM Roles
What  features are provided by AWS Organizations
What functionality is provided by CloudTrail
Is it possible to restrict what the Account Root User can do?
What is Role Switching?
What are valid IAM Policy types 

